Level12(Bandit11-12) password in data.txt - 7x16WNeHIi5YkIhWsfFIqoognUTyj9Q4

I displayed the contents of the "data.txt" file by using "cat data.txt" with this command the output is - "Gur cnffjbeq vf 7k16JArUVv5LxVuJfsSVdbbtaHGlw9D4", this is encrypted using the "ROT13" encryption. user can encrypt any information using the following command "tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m' <<< "example text to be encrypted"

the command "tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m'" can also be used to decrypt ROT13 encrypted, here is the complete command I used to get the answer "tr 'A-Za-z' 'N-ZA-Mn-za-m' <<< Gur cnffjbeq vf 7k16JArUVv5LxVuJfsSVdbbtaHGlw9D4" the output of the command was "The password is 7x16WNeHIi5YkIhWsfFIqoognUTyj9Q4".

ROT13 Wikipedia Page - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROT13#Emacs_and_Vim


Level 13 (Bandit12-13) password found in data9.bin - FO5dwFsc0cbaIiH0h8J2eUks2vdTDwAn 

To get to the file, I had to use different decompressioning tools such as gzip, tar and bzip2. First I created the temp directory using "mktemp -d", once an output was produced I then created a copy and move that copy into the new directory. I then created another copy of the copied data.txt file, this newer copy name data.bin was used to as the starting point to find the password.

using file to find the compression type, I kept compressing and redirecting using "gunzip < data8.bin > data9.bin" move the decompressed data into another file to continue decompressing, going from compresseed file types to POSIX tar Archive to finally ASCII text type, which had the completely decompressed answer.

This one took me sometime to figure out, going online and understanding file type, loved this challenge. Onto the next one.

Level 14 (bandit13-14) - MU4VWeTyJk8ROof1qqmcBPaLh7lDCPvS

For this challenge, the password was stored in another server which could only be access by using a the given RSA Private Key.

Using the private key to access "bandit14", will only then allow me to access the correct directory to find the password stored in "/etc/bandit_pass/bandit14"

Checking the file permissions, I noticed that the file permission were not set correctly.

I needed to get the private key on my local machine, to change the file permissions, I used the "scp" command which allowed me to securely copy the file over to my local machine. Full Command Below

scp -P 2220 bandit13@bandit.labs.overthewire.org:/home/bandit13/sshkey.private .

Once I had the RSA Private Key locally downloaded all I needed was to log back into overthewire.org as "bandit14", using the "ssh" I appended the complete command and typed into the terminal the following.

ssh -i sshkey.private bandit14@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220

Now logged into bandit14, I used to directory path provided "/etc/bandit_pass/bandit14" and used the "cd" command to jump right into the directory where the password is kept. inside "bandit_pass" was the password.
